1. Install Node

2. Open command prompt and type "node --version", if you see the version number, then
node is successfully installed in the machine.

3. Install npm and angular package. command : "npm install -g @angular/cli"

4. After installation type command to confirm : "ng --version"

5. Go to destination folder and oppen cmd/powersheel there. type command : "ng new AppName" there and it will make a new angular project in that folder. 

6. Start visual studio code. We can start visual studio code from powershell/terminal itself. For that, we need to set path for visual studio code. For that, we need to start vs code. type command : "shift+control+p". It will open command pallate. Then type "install code command". and install it. But newer version of VS code already creates a path in windows. so, now we don't have the feature to manually install it from command pallate. this feature is already there. To launch VS code from terminal, type "code .".

7. To run angular project type command in terminal : "ng serve" 

8. Now we need to install typescript globally : "npm install -g typescript"

9. to see version : "tsc --version"

10. In powershell, we can create e new typescript file and open it with vs code. like : "code main.ts". This will create e file named "main.ts" and open with vs code. Then we can write some typescript there. 

11. In that typescript file, we can write typescript and javascript as well. Cause, typescript is a subset of javascript. And we can write typescipt and javascript all together. But the problem is most of the browser do not support typescript code. In that case, we need to compile it to javascript to make it readable to browsers. To compile typescript file "main.ts", we will have to write this command : "tsc main.ts". Basically, what it does is, it transpiles this file into javascript file. And make a new file named "main.js" in that folder. This is the beauty of typescript compiler. 

12. Remember, you will only have to compile your typescript code writting like "tsc appname.ts", when you just writting random typescript code. But in angular, when we write "ng serve", it automatically compiles typescript code. So, in that case, we don't have to compile typescript manuallly.

13. We can execute the typescript code in powershell writting like : "node main.js". Look, here we are not using "main.ts". Cause, there is another file that has been created name "main.js" and this file will be executed. Typescript is only for writting the code. For execution, it always run javascript code. 